README.md, before:

# inspectrum
inspectrum is a tool for analysing captured signals, primarily from software-defined radio receivers.

![inspectrum screenshot](/screenshot.jpg)

## Try it
### Prerequisites

 * cmake
 * fftw 3.x
 * [liquid-dsp](https://github.com/jgaeddert/liquid-dsp)
 * pkg-config
 * qt5

### Building on Debian-based distros

    sudo apt-get install qt5-default libfftw3-dev cmake pkg-config
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


## Building on OSX - Homebrew

    brew install qt5 fftw cmake pkg-config liquid-dsp
    mkdir build
    cd build
    CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$(brew --prefix qt5)/lib/cmake cmake .. -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS:STRING=-I/usr/local/opt/qt5/include ..
    make install

## Building on OSX - Macports

    sudo port install qt5 fftw-3-single cmake pkgconfig liquid-dsp
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


### Run

    ./inspectrum

## Input
inspectrum supports the following file types:
 * `*.cf32`, `*.cfile` - Complex 32-bit floating point samples (GNURadio, osmocom_fft)
 * `*.cs16` - Complex 16-bit signed integer samples (BladeRF)
 * `*.cs8` - Complex 8-bit signed integer samples (HackRF)
 * `*.cu8` - Complex 8-bit unsigned integer samples (RTL-SDR)

If an unknown file extension is loaded, inspectrum will default to `*.cf32`.

## Features
 * Large (multi-gigabyte) file support
 * Spectrogram with zoom/pan
 * Plots of amplitude, frequency and IQ samples
 
## Contact
 * #inspectrum on freenode IRC

Commit message:

runtime language selection
add a translator and a test translation

README.md, after:

# inspectrum
inspectrum is a tool for analysing captured signals, primarily from software-defined radio receivers.

![inspectrum screenshot](/screenshot.jpg)

## Try it
### Prerequisites

 * cmake
 * fftw 3.x
 * [liquid-dsp](https://github.com/jgaeddert/liquid-dsp)
 * pkg-config
 * qt5

### Building on Debian-based distros

    sudo apt-get install qt5-default libfftw3-dev cmake pkg-config
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


## Building on OSX - Homebrew

    brew install qt5 fftw cmake pkg-config liquid-dsp
    mkdir build
    cd build
    CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$(brew --prefix qt5)/lib/cmake cmake .. -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS:STRING=-I/usr/local/opt/qt5/include ..
    make install

## Building on OSX - Macports

    sudo port install qt5 fftw-3-single cmake pkgconfig liquid-dsp
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install


### Translation
**TODO:** dev notes: tidy up.
Translations are stored in src/i18n in files names lang_languageCode_countryCode. e.g.
    ./i18n/lang_en_GB.qm

The language is determined by the system locale, and may be overridden with the environment variable LANG. If no
translation exists the fallback is to use the software as it was written.
    export LANG=en_GB
The workflow for translation is to run `lupdate` to generate/update the translation source (.ts file), from the C++ cource. Use Qt Linguist to add translations and then `lrelease` to compress the source .ts file into a binary file that is used by the program at runtime.
    lupdate *.cpp -ts i18n/lang_en_GB.ts
Update translations with Qt linguist or your favourite editor.
    cd /path/to/binary/i18n
    lrelease /path/to/source/i18n/lang_en_GB.ts

### Run

    ./inspectrum

## Input
inspectrum supports the following file types:
 * `*.cf32`, `*.cfile` - Complex 32-bit floating point samples (GNURadio, osmocom_fft)
 * `*.cs16` - Complex 16-bit signed integer samples (BladeRF)
 * `*.cs8` - Complex 8-bit signed integer samples (HackRF)
 * `*.cu8` - Complex 8-bit unsigned integer samples (RTL-SDR)

If an unknown file extension is loaded, inspectrum will default to `*.cf32`.

## Features
 * Large (multi-gigabyte) file support
 * Spectrogram with zoom/pan
 * Plots of amplitude, frequency and IQ samples
 
## Contact
 * #inspectrum on freenode IRC
